
JUNGLE (0:36)
No comment


TEMPLE RUINS (11:13)
Improved 31 seconds on my old time.

At the start, I perform a flying corner bug. This saves a couple of seconds.

Lag avoidance in outdoors areas by look manipulation. This will be done
heavily throughout the run.

Because I used an extra flare in Jungle, I can't Perpetual Flare Cancel
(PFC) or Flare Cancel at all until I pick up more flares, despite the
fact it would save more time to PFC in this level than to use the flare
in the previous level. This is a speed/entertainment tradeoff.

Minor improvements occur such as rolling off ledges, taking corners a
bit tighter, grab cancels and such. These should be throughout the run.
A crack bug occurs at the moving block puzzle. This saves about 5
seconds. It would save a lot more but the setup is not very gracious.
Much more optimized movement in water, including manipulating position
for picking up items/throwing switches to avoid the game's "auto-move",
which is slow.

The Shiva at the 2 keyholes is a bitch. I have to swerve so that he will
attack the ground, delaying his approach on Lara as she enters one key.
Otherwise, he would kill me.

In the water/mud room, 2 decent improvements occur. First, we can jump
to the invisible platform (even without a stumble!) without the need for
the slope, though it is incredibly difficult. We colloquially call this
the "Area 51 jump" as MMAN pointed it out to me while I was TASing Area
51. The jump brings Lara to the peak of her jump height at the right
moment. It is so unreliable. The second improvement is we do a
reverse-shelf bug onto the switch platform, then dive into the water.
It's about 2 seconds faster.

Better manipulation of Shivas meaning I don't have to heal

The 2 shivas battle was impossible. I stop shooting occasionally (you
can see/hear when) so that the Shiva does not shield himself. First I
get Shiva #1 to 1 health then attack Shiva #2. They land on the same
position and we can pick up both Scimitars. Very difficult without tools.


THE RIVER GANGES (1:52)
Makes use of the new quad-wall bug
http://tombrunner.net/Forum/viewtopic.php?f=14&t=67&p=2798#p2798

Minor optimizations, such as look manipulation and better use of the
quad bike.


CAVES OF KALIYA (1:28)
Despite getting to Tony 2 seconds faster, 6 seconds are then lost from
only using one grenade on Tony plus 40 pistol shots rather than two
grenades and 20 pistol shots. The rationale is that the extra grenades
will save a lot of time in Temple of Puna.

To get to Tony faster, I made better use of extended sprint and the
"instaflare" trick.

NEVADA DESERT (1:42)
Makes use of the new detonator skip, so thanks a lot to apel for that.
I found a consistent way to perform this bug; I posted about it at
http://tombrunner.net/Forum/viewtopic.php?f=10&t=242

More optimized movement in the water section.

Improvement at the beginning of a shelf bug followed by backwards-shelf
bug to get on top of the 'mountain' rather than the traditional flying
corner bug, which gets us further away.

Minor improvement at the end of sprint-roll followed by flare cancel
rather than landing on the slope, which would make our Z velocity 0.

todo
Explain save bug. (If I can!)


MADUBU GORGE (3:37)
Saved 30 seconds via new way to park the kayak. It's a lot more
dangerous and impractical for RTS.

Using the zipwire is about 2 seconds slower than jumping across the
platforms. I guess it is due to the slow animation of it.

I use a trick to avoid a pullup at the end via what is known as
"Venice Boat Trick". Lara is wedged between the kayak and the ledge
and appears on top of it.


TEMPLE OF PUNA (1:38)
If Puna is shot too early, he will spawn a lizard after 3 grenade shots.
I had to delay the second shot to get him to cooperate.

I found a new trick involving Puna. Before you can shoot him, he must
turn to face you - so, if you go to the edge of the platform, he turns
90 degrees rather than 180, thus shortening his animation.

I don't need to pick up the Desert Eagle. Instead, I use the Grenade
Launcher plus spare grenades I picked up in Caves of Kaliya and Madubu
Gorge. It would be faster to pick up greandes from Nevada Desert instead
of Caves of Kaliya, but in the save bug our inventory is loaded from
Caves of Kaliya, so this is not an option.


HIGH SECURITY COMPOUND () 
Guard manipulation at the beginning was not easy, but after several
attempts I managed to get a decent cycle without having to wait any time.

In the room before the kitchen (the one which you flood), it is possible
to get to the kitchen without flooding it at all. However, it takes way
too long for it to be feasible - the method is embedding in the corner
and doing flicker motion. In addition, we can skip the trigger that
shuts the door to the previous room but it doesn't prove useful, either.

In the crawlspace, I use a new trick which makes Lara zip fast through
the ceiling. The speed of the trick is about the same as peak of a 
sprint roll. The bug is detailed here:
http://tombrunner.net/Forum/viewtopic.php?p=3189#p3189


